# Diamond-Price-Prediction

INDRODUCTION:

A Diamond is a precious stone formed from an colorless crystalline form of pure carbon. As we all know, a diamond has been an all time preference in the section of ornaments. So diamonds are widely used in making different kinds of jewelries and decorative items.

When compare to other ornaments, the price of the diamond is bit high. So it is very important to have knowledge about diamond features and price distributions, and mainly understanding diamonds are very important, because each diamond is unique in its way.

That is the main reason I have chosen this data set.

Here in this data set, I am predicting the price of the diamonds with all remaining variables are given.


LINEAR REGRESSION MODEL:

Regression is used to establish a relationship between 2 variables. 1 is response variable and other is predictive variable. In linear model, the relationship is generated by an equation y = a + bx. Here y is response variable and x is predicted variable, a and b are coefficients.

HERE I AM PREDICTING THE PRICE OF THE DIAMOND, GIVEN REMAINING ALL VARIABLES IN THE DATA SET.


RANDOM FOREST MODEL:

In Random forest model approach, a large number of decision tree are created. Every observation is fed into every decision tree. The most common outcome for each observation is used as the final output. A new observation is fed into all trees and taking a majority vote for each classification model.

HERE I AM PREDICTING THE PRICE OF THE DIAMOND, GIVEN REMAINING ALL VARIABLES IN THE DATA SET.


CONCLUSION:

Carat, cut and clarity are the primary factor responsible for variation of price.

Price of diamond linearly correlated with x, y, z and carat.

Random forest Model works better than Linear Regression Model AND Decision tree model.
